Tizen 6.0 Public M2 Release Note (#1250)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/platform/release-notes/tizen-6-0-m2.md

> ﻿# Tizen 6.0 Public M2 Release Notes

Author: Will accept

Release date: Oct. 15, 2020

## Release Notes

### System (Kernel and System framework)

#### New and changed features

- Kernel upgrade

>   - Kernel for Raspberry Pi 4 has been upgraded to version 5.4y.

Reviewer: I think it should be like this. 
- Kernel for Raspberry Pi 4 has been upgraded to version 5.4.50.

>   - Kernel for Raspberry Pi 4 has been upgraded to version 5.4y.

Reviewer 2: @najubae , Yes as per the [latest update](https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/raspberry-pi-os/) 5.4 is fine

- 64Bit Kernel and Boot Support

>   - 64Bit supported Kernel and Boot for Raspberry Pi 4

Reviewer: accept

- Lightweight KSM

>   - Reference implementation of lightweight version of Kernel Samepage Merging (LKSM) in Raspberry PI 4 Kernel and resourced extension with LKSM

Reviewer: accept

- System management
  - Runtime storage verification with dm-verity has been developed.
  - Systemd has been optimized for better boot performance.
- D-Bus

>   - Algorithms for D-Bus policy check have been improved for reducing dbus call latency.

Reviewer 3: Accept

>   - Algorithms for D-Bus policy check have been improved for reducing dbus call latency.

Reviewer 3: Accept

  - D-Bus implementation on public API set has been optimized.
- Logger

>   - QoS feature has been developed for fairly limiting and fully utilizing log usage.

Reviewer 3: Accept

  - Deduplication feature has been developed for preventing repeated logs.
  - CPU usage on dlog_logger has been optimized with added configurations.
- Device and resource management
  - Doze mode has been developed for power saving during lcd-off period.
  - Always-on-display feature has been improved for better user experience.
  - Configurable CPU pinning for heterogeneous cores has been developed.
  - Monitoring for CPU lock timeout has been improved to prevent battery drain.
  - C API set for obtaining battery information has been added.
  - C# API set for power management QoS has been added.

#### Fixes

- System and device management
  - Emergency mode has been fixed to remove wrong service dependencies.

> ### System (System Reliability & OS Upgrade)

Reviewer 4: will accept

#### New and changed features

- Update package signing/verification has been enhanced.
- Recovery package signer/verifier has been added.
- Removable storage-based update/recovery has been supported. 
- Update result API has been enhanced.
- Diagnostics API, which can be used to retrieve diagnostic information from the system like system crash, has been added.

> - Ability to resolve callstack from updatable applications has been added.

Reviewer 4: will accept

> - Size-reduced coredumps for C# programs have been added.

Reviewer 4: will accept

### System (Base)

#### New and changed features

- The capi-base-utils API set has been expanded.
  - New
    - ures: Resource management module.

#### Fixes

- The capi-system-system-settings API has been refactored.

### Application framework

#### New and changed features

- TIDL Extension
  - API set
    - The API set for synchronous connection has been added.
    - New keywords for sharing files have been added.
  - Tools
    - Tools for analyzing latency and throughput have been provided.
    - The enhanced TIDL compiler using receive threads to improve concurrency has been provided.
- Multi-package installer
  - API set
    - The API set has been provided to install multiple packages at once.
  - Tools
    - Tools have been provided to install multiple packages at once.
- Tizen Theme Manager
  - Getting resources

>     - The API set for obtaining related resources path using a specific resource key has been provided.

Reviewer 5: will accept

  - Theme changed event
    - The API set for receiving the changed event from the app when changing the settings has been provided.
  - Theme overlay

>     - Overlay function between default theme and selected theme has been provided.

Reviewer 5: will accept

### Window and Interaction

#### New and changed features

- Interaction

>   - Gesture FW & engine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gesture FW and engine

Author: will accept

>   - Gesture FW & engine

Reviewer 2: Yes @mijin85cho surely so, will suggest this only, thanks 

https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1201/files
```sugges

    - The API set to receive the event for hand gesture has been supported.
    - Gesture Framework for managing multi gesture clients and engines has been supported.
    - The service app for default gesture engine has been supported.
    - Support for on-demand daemon launch has been added.
- Enlightenment Wayland display server

>   - Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Legacy Widget applications can display on the screen of which size is different from the one of application without the modification.

Reviewer 6: The exact meaning of the sentence you mentioned is following:
> Features have been added to ensure graphical compatibility, even when existing widget applications created to support certain resolutions run on different resolutions.
Would you please kindly give us a suggestion for the sentence ? :)

>   - Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Legacy Widget applications can display on the screen of which size is different from the one of application without the modification.

Reviewer 2: @inputhacker How about this rephrase?

Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Without any modification, Legacy Widget applications can be viewed on different screen sizes than that it was originally designed for.

>   - Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Legacy Widget applications can display on the screen of which size is different from the one of application without the modification.

Reviewer 6: Oh, thanks. We accept your suggestion. 💯

>   - Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Legacy Widget applications can display on the screen of which size is different from the one of application without the modification.

Reviewer 7: Minor comment. 
"Legacy Widget Application" for the first,
"Legacy Widget applications" for the second.

How about unifying the usage of capital/small letters?

>   - Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Legacy Widget applications can display on the screen of which size is different from the one of application without the modification.

Reviewer 2: @mijin85cho 

Can you please suggest, I will go with your suggestion.

>   - Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Legacy Widget applications can display on the screen of which size is different from the one of application without the modification.

Reviewer 7: How about small letter to "application"?

>   - Display Compatibility for the Legacy Widget Application has been added. Legacy Widget applications can display on the screen of which size is different from the one of application without the modification.

Author: Small letter "application" is good.

- Ecore Buffer
  - The ecore-buffer and ecore-buffer-queue API set has been deprecated.
- Tizen-ws-shell

>   - A new enumeration has been added to support a new type of quickpanel service.

Reviewer 6: Thanks. We accept this change. :)

- Quickpanel C# Support

>   - C# API set for quickpanel client and service has been added. (Tizen.NUI.WindowSystem.Shell)

Reviewer 6: Thanks. We accept this change. :)

> - The libds API set that can be used to create and configure wayland-based display server has been newly added.

Reviewer 6: Thanks. We accept this change. :)

### Graphics Engine

#### New and changed features

- DALi (3D UI Toolkit)

>   - All API set of DALi has been deprecated. NUI (DALi C# layer) replaces DALi API set.

Reviewer 8: accept.

>   - All API set of DALi has been deprecated. NUI (DALi C# layer) replaces DALi API set.

Author: As "API set" is being used instead of "APIs" in the release note, we will express as follows in order to avoid using "API sets".
  - API set of DALi has been deprecated. DALi API set has been replaced with NUI (DALi C# layer).

- NUI
  - Common
    - Throwing an exception has been added when some methods are used in worker threads.
    - Support for ComponentApplications has been added.
  - Image
    - Support for WebP image has been added.
    - Support for asynchronous loading of gif images has been added.
  - Input
    - The keyboard repeat setting changed event has been added.
  - Utility

>     - Some Capture API set has been added.

Reviewer 2: @mijin85cho 
If it was like: 
- Some Capture API sets 
then 
have been added. 
is appropriate

But it is Some API set 

Since set is a collection but is singular in itself, thus has will satisfy the agreement in the context of a complete sentence. 

Some API set ( it is a set of x APIs) that has been added. 

- A set of X APIs has been added. 
- Some set of API has been added. 
- Some set of APIs have been added 

- Some Capture API set has been added. 
- Some Capture API sets have been added. 

What are your views? Let me know if I am wrong. 
Thanks.

>     - Some Capture API set has been added.

Reviewer 7: @nawab-samsung In my view, "some" itself has the meaning of plural.
So to be used with "some", the "set" must be changed to "sets", the plural form.

I asked this question because I thought "Some set" should be checked also. 
Isn't the "Some sets" the right form, resulting "have" as the following verb form?

I tried to check which "Capture API set" is/are added to check plural & singular, but couldn't. So I asked at here.

>     - Some Capture API set has been added.

Reviewer 2: What is correct w.r.t the context? 

Can you please let us know many API sets for Capture have been added? 
If it is one, we can explicitly write its name.

>     - Some Capture API set has been added.

Author: As "API set" is being used instead of "APIs" in the release note, we'd like to avoid using "API sets". By the way how about using "APIs" instead of "API set" only in this sentence if "APIs" is commonly used (if not the wrong expression)?

>     - Some Capture API set has been added.

Reviewer 2: @wtprince  thanks, we do understand that an API set is added, which means (multiple APIs ) have been added. 

@mijin85cho we can go ahead with the same text as is then, what are your thoughts?

>     - Some Capture API set has been added.

Reviewer 7: @wtprince I understand that you don't want to use "API sets", so for here we can consider "API set" as "API sets", plural. For the consistency through the document, I hope to keep "API set" instead of "APIs".

#### Fixes

- NUI
  - View

>     - The size bug of the View has been fixed when setting the size and animating the size are used at the same time.

Reviewer 2: How about this rephrase, kindly provide your suggestion:
```suggestion
    - The View size-related bug has been fixed when setting and animating the size are used at the same time.
```

>     - The size bug of the View has been fixed when setting the size and animating the size are used at the same time.

Author: OK

### UI framework

#### New and changed features

- EFL
  - Version 1.24 has been upgraded to version 1.25.
  - Support for gengrid has been added for wearable profile.
  - Support for evas vector graphic has been added.
  - Support for relative container has been added.

### Multimedia framework

#### New and changed features

- Camera
  - Support for platform privilege has been added.
- MediaStreamer
  - Native WebRTC API set has been added.
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_WEBRTC_PEER_TYPE
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_WEBRTC_STUN_SERVER
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_WEBRTC_REMOTE_SESSION_DESCRIPTION
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_WEBRTC_ADD_ICE_CANDIDATE
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_WEBRTC_RTP_TRANSCEIVER_DIRECTION_FOR_AUDIO
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_WEBRTC_RTP_TRANSCEIVER_DIRECTION_FOR_VIDEO
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_MAX_LATENESS
    - MEDIA_STREAMER_PARAM_RTP_LATENCY
    - media_streamer_node_decoded_ready_cb
    - media_streamer_node_set_decoded_ready_cb
    - media_streamer_node_unset_decoded_ready_cb
    - media_streamer_webrtc_node_set_message_cb
    - media_streamer_webrtc_node_unset_message_cb
- Image Util
  - Support for WebP has been added.

>   - Support for encoding for GIF and WebP animation has been added.

Reviewer 2: How about this slight modification: 
```suggestion
  - Support for encoding GIF and WebP animation has been added.

Author: will accept

  - Support for ARGB and GBRA for PNG encoding has been added.
- Metadata Editor
  - Support for WAV, FLAC, and OGG has been added.
- Media Controller
  - Result codes for command have been added.

>   - Three Playback states have been added. (Connection, Buffering, and Error)

Reviewer 9: will accept

- Media Vision
  - New enumerations for human pose landmark and body part have been added.

>   - API set to detect pose landmark, i.e., human body pose, has been added.

Reviewer 9: will accept

- Recorder
  - API set to decide video frame encoding has been added.
  - Support for video scaling has been added.

>     - It is only for single video stream supported device.

Reviewer 10: Will accept. Thanks.

### Network and Connectivity

#### New and changed features

- Connection API

>   - Following API set to require new partner level privilege has been changed.

Reviewer 11: "Following API set has been changed to require new partner level privilege."

This is what I intended.

>   - Following API set to require new partner level privilege has been changed.

Reviewer 2: @semun-lee , sure, this is fine, request you to kindly incorporate the sentence. 

Following API set has been changed to require new partner level privilege

>     - New privilege: http://tizen.org/privilege/network.route

Reviewer 11: will accept

    - Privilege level: partner
    - Affected API set
      - connection_add_route
      - connection_remove_route
      - connection_add_route_ipv6
      - connection_remove_route_ipv6
      - connection_add_route_entry
      - connection_remove_route_entry
- Bluetooth mesh network

>   - Bluetooth framework has been extended to support Bluetooth mesh network standard.

Reviewer 11: will accept

    - Platform API for Bluetooth mesh network features has been added.
    - Open source bluez module has been upgraded to support Bluetooth mesh network.
    - Tizen Bluetooth framework has been extended to control bluez’s mesh daemon.

>   - Tizen devices will be able to do Bluetooth mesh network provisioning and control devices like smart blubs, which support Bluetooth mesh network standard.

Reviewer 2: Please check for technical correctness, then only incorporate the comment. 
```suggestion
  - Tizen devices have been provisioned for Bluetooth mesh network and control devices like smart blubs, which support Bluetooth mesh network standards.

Reviewer 2: @mijin85cho yes seems fine and crisp too.

Reviewer 11: `Bluetooth mesh network provisioning and controlling devices like smart bulbs, which support Bluetooth mesh network standards has been added.`

looks good.

Reviewer 2: @semun-lee  but without code styling. 
Thanks

>   - Tizen devices will be able to do Bluetooth mesh network provisioning and control devices like smart blubs, which support Bluetooth mesh network standard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Tizen devices have been provisioned for Bluetooth mesh network and control devices such as smart bulbs, which support Bluetooth mesh network standards.

- Wi-Fi multiple interface support
  - Network modules have been extended to support devices with multiple Wi-Fi network interfaces.

>     - connman and net-config have been extended to identify a specific Wi-Fi network interface for its operations like scan and connect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - connman and net-config have been extended to identify a specific Wi-Fi network interface for operations like scan and connect.

Reviewer 11: will accept.

>     - Platform API for specifying Wi-Fi network interface for each operation has been added for connection and wifi-manager API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
    - Platform API for specifying the Wi-Fi network interface for each operation has been added for connection and Wi-Fi Manager API.

Reviewer 11: will accept.

>   - Public connection and wifi-manager API are backward compatible by introducing a concept of default Wi-Fi network interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Public connection and Wi-Fi Manager API is backward compatible by introducing a concept of default Wi-Fi network interface.

Reviewer 11: will accept.

> - UWB (Ultra wideband) ranging

Reviewer 2: Yes @mijin85cho 
I see it being used commonly as an abbreviation so didn't change, but yes our style is as you mentioned, so suggesting the same, thanks! 

```suggestion
- Ultra wideband (UWB) ranging

> - UWB (Ultra wideband) ranging

Reviewer 11: will accept.

  - Platform API for UWB has been added.
  - UWB manager daemon has been added.

>   - It has been tested with Decawave’s dwm1001 module on RPI4.

Reviewer 2: Please check if it is aligned properly, I preassume it should be right-aligned. Correct me if I am wrong. 
Also, check for technical correctness.
```suggestion
  - UWB manager daemon has been tested with Decawave’s dwm1001 module on RPI 4.

Reviewer 11: will accept.

>   - Devices with UWB modules will be able to measure distance between them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Devices with UWB modules have been enabled to measure the distance between them.
```

Reviewer 11: will accept.

### Security

#### New and changed features

- Security monitor
  - Query-based security API has been added.
  - Type-safe query builder has been added.
  - Support for Device Policy Management has been added.
- Privileges
  - New privilege has been added.
    - network.route

### Service framework

#### New and changed features

- Location Framework
  - Support for getting velocity accuracy has been added.
  - Support for getting location bounds to check on edge with tolerance has been added.
    - Support for checking on edge with tolerance for polygon has been added.
    - Support for checking on edge with tolerance for circle has been added.
    - Support for checking on edge with tolerance for rectangle has been added.
- Battery-Monitor Framework
  - Support for resetting battery dump data has been added.

>   - Support for dumping application id with event of battery dump has been added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
  - Support for dumping application ID with the event of battery dump has been added.

Reviewer 12: yes, I agree with the suggestions.

- Context Framework
  - Motion API has been deprecated.

#### Fixes

- Context Framework
  - Fix for potential security vulnerability has been added.
- Location Framework

>   - Precision improvement in getting distance between two locations has been added.

Reviewer 2: @mijin85cho your suggestion is good, but we can add articles to make sentences more structured. 

- A potential security vulnerability has been fixed.

- The precision in getting distance between two locations has been improved.

What are your views on this, if you are fine with this we can request @wtprince to update it.

>   - Precision improvement in getting distance between two locations has been added.

Reviewer 7: I think your update is acceptable.

### Web framework

#### New and changed features

- Web engine
  - Feature support
    - Support for OffscreenCanvas has been added: OffscreenCanvas enables canvas rendering apart from the main thread.

>   - Feature change/fix

Reviewer 2: Yes, I agree with you. 

This is the right approach, but just for the sake of consistency, didn't suggest. 

For example in this [release note](https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1201/files)

- tzsh-quickpanel
  - tzsh_quickpanel_scrollable_state_set/get API and enumeration have been added.
  - tzsh_quickpanel_scrollable_set/get API has been deprecated.

>   - Feature change/fix

Reviewer 13: OK. good with "Feature changed and fixed"

>   - Feature change/fix

Reviewer 7: I mean, we already have "New and changed features" section and "Fixes" section. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9958374/94093174-8d08de80-fe57-11ea-87f4-11224904e019.png)

So my concern is, isn't it better to list up the items under each "New and changed features" section and "Fixes"? For example like below.

---

#### New and changed features

- Web engine
  - Feature support
    - Support for OffscreenCanvas has been added: OffscreenCanvas enables canvas rendering apart from the main thread.
  - Strict MIME type for module scripts
    - Loading module script from the local file feature has been removed.
- Web runtime
  - Device API has been added for wrt-service.
    ...

#### Fixes

- Compatibility enhancement
  - The problem of autofill operation in major web site has been improved.
- ...
- App control URL bug
    - appcontrol:// scheme now able to launch application from encoded URL.

>   - Feature change/fix

Reviewer 13: Accept your suggestion.

>   - Feature change/fix

Reviewer 13: Accept your suggestion.
Change -> Strict MIME type for module scripts: Loading module script from the local file feature has been removed 
Fixes -> App control URL bug fix: appcontrol:// scheme now able to launch application from encoded URL.

    - Strict MIME type for module scripts: Loading module script from the local file feature has been removed.

>     - App control URL bug fix: appcontrol:// scheme now able to launch application from encoded URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
  - App control URL bug fix: appcontrol://  scheme is now able to launch application from encoded URL.
```
Is **appcontrol://**   written puposefully like this ?

Reviewer 13: Yes it is on purpose.

Reviewer 14: will accept

- Web runtime

>   - Device API has been added for wrt-service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Device API for wrt-service has been added.

Reviewer 14: will accept

>   - Web server and web server has been added as a wrt-service built-in module.

Reviewer 2: Is the Web server repetition intentional or can we delete one Web server in the sentence?
```suggestion 

  - Web server has been added as a wrt-service built-in module.
```

  - WRT.js API management policy has been added.

>     - API has been changed from generic js to type script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - API has been changed from generic js to Typescript.

Reviewer 14: I think it would be better for 's' to be capitalized. => TypeScript

Reviewer 2: @nke94 sure

    - API compatibility checker has been added.

#### Fixes

- Compatibility enhancement
  - The problem of autofill operation in major web site has been improved.
- Stability enhancement
  - Unexpected random crash while clean up sequence has been fixed.

### Lightweight Web Solution

#### New and changed features

- Rendering engine
  - Data Element's DOM API has been added.
  - Performance Web API set has been added.
  - Range Web API set has been added.
- JS Engine	
  - ES10 features have been added.
    - Array.prototype.flat
    - Array.prototype.flatMap
    - Object.fromEntries
    - String.prototype.trimStart
    - String.prototype.trimEnd

>   - Following features' syntax has been updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The syntax of the following features has been updated.

Reviewer 15: accept

    - Optional catch binding parameters

>     - Allowing U+2028 (LINE SEPARATOR) and U+2029 (PARAGRAPH SEPARATOR) in string literals

Reviewer 2: Global: Kindly check the periods of all sub-bullets, at some places you have missed, and some places you have kept it. 
Please ensure that you keep the period at the end of all sub-bullet points as is the case with previous [release notes](https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1123/files).

Reviewer 15: I wrote them without the periods because they are just items (or features). 
In even previous release notes, general items were written without the period.
Please double check them. If i am wrong, please keep the periods.

Reviewer 2: > I wrote them without the periods because they are just items (or features).
>In even previous release notes, general items were written without the period.
> Please double check them. If i am wrong, please keep the periods.

Agreed the features/general items are without periods, but everything else needs periods. Kindly verify and do the needful.

Reviewer 15: @mijin85cho and @nawab-samsung  Thank you.

  - Array.prototype.sort has been updated due to the specification change.
  - Function.prototype.toString has been updated due to the specification change.
- Performance and Memory Optimization
  - JS Engine
    - Debugger core features have been updated.

>     - Lazy AtomicString initialization for memory/performance has been optimized.

Reviewer 2: Kindly check for technical correctness
```suggestion
    - Lazy AtomicString initialization for memory and performance has been optimized.

Reviewer 15: accept

    - Vector extension logic has been improved.

#### Fixes

- Bug fixes
  - Layout bugs have been fixed.
  - Scroll bugs have been fixed.
  - Font Rendering bugs have been fixed.
  - Memory overflow bugs have been fixed.
  - Crash issues have been fixed.

### Tizen .NET

#### New and changed features

- NET runtime and tools
  - .NETCore has been upgraded from 3.1.0 to 3.1.3.
- TizenFx
  - Tizen.NUI
    - VertexBuffer class has been added.
    - Pagination class has been added.
    - Screen connection methods have been added to CustomView class.
    - SlidingStarted event has been added to Slider class.
    - ThumbColor property has been added to Slider class.
    - FlexLayout and GridLayout have been added.
    - ScrollPosition and ScrollCurrentPosition have been added to ScrollableBase class.
    - Notification class has been added.
    - FlexContainer class has been deprecated.
    - IndicatorColor and SelectedIndicatorColor have been added to Pagination class.
    - Quickpanel has been added to WindowSystem.
  - Tizen.Network.Connection
    - Required privilege level has been changed.
  - Tizen.MachineLearning
    - Custom filter class has been added.
  - Tizen.Multimedia

>     - Setter/Getter for volume recording has been added to AudioIO.

Reviewer 2: Can we write like: 
- Setter and Getter...

Reviewer 16: Will accept

    - Result code and playback state have been added to MediaController.
    - New RequestCommand for async has been added to MediaController.
    - New barcode types have been added to Vision.
  - Tizen.Applications
    - Synchronous connection request and private file sharing have been added to RPCPort.
  - Tizen.Network
    - New Avrcp Control has been added to Bluetooth.

### Toolchain

#### New and changed features

- Toolchain configure dumper support has been developed.

>   - "{package}-configure-dump.rpm" in binutils, glibc, and gcc have been provided with “dump_configure“ macro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **{package}-configure-dump.rpm** in binutils, glibc, and gcc have been provided with **dump_configure** macro.

Reviewer 17: will accept

Reviewer 2: Sure @mijin85cho thanks

>   - "{package}-configure-dump.rpm" in binutils, glibc, and gcc have been provided with “dump_configure“ macro.

Reviewer 2: @dkson95 we can keep it as is following @mijin85cho 's  opinion.

- Build with armv8-a machine option has been added.
- ASan has been enabled.

>   - Automated build, test with JIRA reporting process have been established.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion  
  - Automated build, test with JIRA reporting process has been established.

Reviewer 17: will accept

  - Libasansi feature for .NET ASan has been back-ported from Tizen 5.5.

#### Fixes

- Patches for CVE-2020-10029 have been back-ported in glibc from upstream.

### Machine Learning

#### New and changed features

> - ML/Training API (new)

Reviewer 2: Please verify for technical correctness
```suggestion
- Machine Learning Training API (new)

Reviewer 18: Looks better.

  - The ability to update and train deep neural networks on Tizen devices has been added.

>   - The ML/Training API allows application developers to describe their own neural network models and train the models or to re-train pre-trained models in run-time.

Reviewer 19: Do we have to change this ML/Training API too or is it ok in context?

Reviewer 2: @jijoongmoon yes,l

 Machine Learning Training API (new)

At both places

Reviewer 2: - Machine Learning Training API (new)
  - The ability to update and train deep neural networks on Tizen devices has been added.
  - The Machine Learning Training API allows application developers to describe their own Neural Network models and train the models or to re-train pre-trained models in run-time.

> - ML/Inference API update

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Machine Learning Inference API update

Reviewer 18: Looks better. Thanks.

  - The ability to use various hardware accelerators with Single API has been added.
  - The ability to fine-tune each element of a pipeline in run-time has been added.
  - The latency overheads of Single API have been reduced.
- NNStreamer update
  - NNStreamer has been upgraded from 1.5.2 to 1.6.0.
  - AI acceleration hardware support has been added.

>     - ML API may utilize Verisicon-Vivante and Qualcomm-SNPE in addition to previously supported hardware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Machine Learning API can utilize Verisicon-Vivante and Qualcomm-SNPE in addition to previously supported hardware.

Reviewer 18: Looks better.

>       - You may need to download and install additional adaptors from tizen.org for these additional hardware supports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion      
      - You may need to download and install additional adaptors from tizen.org to support additional hardware.

Reviewer 18: Yup that looks better. Thanks.

  - The ability to import stream data from or export stream data to Flatbuffers and Protobuffers has been added for distributed or remote pipelines.
  - The ability to implement and insert tensor-converters for custom data types in run-time has been added.
- NNTrainer (new)

>   - NNTrainer has been added to allow on-device neural network training, which mainly targets transfer learning mechanisms with a few simple layers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion    
  - NNTrainer has been added to allow on-device Neural Network training, which mainly targets transfer learning mechanisms with a few simple layers.

Reviewer 19: Looks better. Thanks.

  - NNTrainer provides various weight initializers, optimizers, activation functions, and loss functions.

>   - Neural network models may be constructed by applications in run-time or may be loaded from a model file along with pre-trained weight values. The trained weight values can be saved and loaded later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion  
  - Neural Network models can be constructed by applications in run-time or may be loaded from a model file along with pre-trained weight values. Trained weight values can be saved and loaded later.

Reviewer 2: @mijin85cho I didn't change it purposefully as there **may** be some instance when the file is loaded from a model file.
With **can** there is more possibility & with may there is a little lesser possibility. 

We can go with your suggestion, thanks

Reviewer 19: Looks better. Thanks.

>   - Data set for training may be generated by application in run-time or may be fetched from a filesystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion   
  - Data set for training can be generated by the application in runtime or may be fetched from a filesystem.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/Samsung/tizen-docs/pull/1250/files#r492587822

Thanks @mijin85cho

Reviewer 19: Looks better.

- NNFW Runtime (ONE Runtime) update
  - NNFW Runtime has been upgraded from 1.4.0 to 1.9.0.
  - The ability to install extensions to provide customized performance optimization has been added.

#### Fixes

> - ML/Inference API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Machine Learning Inference API

Reviewer 18: Looks better.

> ﻿# Tizen 6.0 Public M2

Reviewer 7: One more comment :
With staging link https://docs1.stg.tizen.org/staging/1250/platform/release-notes/tizen-6-0-m2/,
we can see the first heading is not working well.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9958374/94383263-7b3a7a80-017a-11eb-9d92-6df8d2c053dc.png)

I doubt if there is a \<U+FEFF> in front of "\# Tizen 6.0 Public M2".
Would you please check and remove it?

Below screen shot is from the git history of previous release note.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9958374/94383506-38c56d80-017b-11eb-9ddb-9b7f20d5b279.png)

Author: I removed BOM as follows.
※ I'm not sure that <U+FEFF> is removed as it was not shown originally. So please check if <U+FEFF> has been removed.

 vi tizen-6-0-m2.md
 :set nobomb  // Remove BOM encoding:
 :wq  // Save and quit:

Reviewer 7: The \<U+FEFF> is removed with the last update, so the heading is working well as below image. Thanks for the update. : )

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9958374/95311243-50fa6280-08c8-11eb-8258-a71f81a194e1.png)

Release date: Oct. 15, 2020

## Release Notes

> ### System (Kernel and System framework)

Reviewer 2: @mijin85cho I had suggested capital F for the framework, although in the previous release notes, it is small F.

### System (Kernel and System Framework)

What is your opinion?

Reviewer 7: @nawab-samsung Please keep the original

Reviewer 2: sure

#### New and changed features

- Kernel upgrade
  - Kernel for Raspberry Pi 4 has been upgraded to version 5.4.50.
- 64Bit Kernel and Boot Support
  - 64Bit Kernel and Boot for Raspberry Pi 4 has been supported.
- Lightweight KSM
  - Reference lightweight version of Kernel Samepage Merging (LKSM) in Raspberry PI 4 Kernel and resourced extension with LKSM has been implemented.
- System management
  - Runtime storage verification with dm-verity has been developed.
  - Systemd has been optimized for better boot performance.
- D-Bus
  - Algorithms for D-Bus policy check have been improved for reducing the D-Bus call latency.
  - D-Bus implementation on public API set has been optimized.
- Logger
  - QoS feature has been developed for limiting and fully utilizing log usage.

>   - Deduplication feature has been developed for preventing repeated logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
  - A deduplication feature has been developed for preventing repeated logs.

Reviewer 3: Accept

  - CPU usage on dlog_logger has been optimized with added configurations.
- Device and resource management

>   - Doze mode has been developed for power saving during lcd-off period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
  - Doze mode has been developed for power saving during the LCD off period.
```

Reviewer 3: Accept

>   - Always-on-display feature has been improved for better user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - The Always-on-display feature has been improved for better user experience.

Reviewer 3: Accept

  - Configurable CPU pinning for heterogeneous cores has been developed.
  - Monitoring for CPU lock timeout has been improved to prevent battery drain.
  - C API set for obtaining battery information has been added.
  - C# API set for power management QoS has been added.

#### Fixes

- System and device management

>   - Emergency mode has been fixed to remove wrong service dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
  - The emergency mode has been fixed to remove wrong service dependencies.

Reviewer 3: Accept

### System (System Reliability and OS Upgrade)

#### New and changed features

- Update package signing/verification has been enhanced.

> - Recovery package signer/verifier has been added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
- A recovery package signer/verifier has been added.

Author: will accept

- Removable storage-based update/recovery has been supported. 
- Update result API has been enhanced.
- Diagnostics API, which can be used to retrieve diagnostic information from the system like system crash, has been added.

> - Ability to resolve Callstack from updatable applications has been added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The ability to resolve Callstack from updatable applications has been added.

Author: will accept

#### New and changed features

- TIDL Extension
  - API set
    - The API set for synchronous connection has been added.
    - New keywords for sharing files have been added.
  - Tools
    - Tools for analyzing latency and throughput have been provided.
    - The enhanced TIDL compiler using receive threads to improve concurrency has been provided.
- Multi-package installer
  - API set
    - The API set has been provided to install multiple packages at once.
  - Tools
    - Tools have been provided to install multiple packages at once.
- Tizen Theme Manager
  - Getting resources
    - The API set for obtaining related resource path using a specific resource key has been provided.
  - Theme changed event
    - The API set for receiving the changed event from the app when changing the settings has been provided.
  - Theme overlay
    - Overlay function between the default theme and the selected theme has been provided.

### Window and Interaction

#### New and changed features

- Interaction
  - Gesture FW and engine
    - The API set to receive the event for hand gesture has been supported.
    - Gesture Framework for managing multi gesture clients and engines has been supported.

>     - The service app for default gesture engine has been supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The service app for the default gesture engine has been supported.

Author: will accept

- The libds API set used to create and configure Wayland-based display server has been newly added.

### Graphics Engine

#### New and changed features

- DALi (3D UI Toolkit)
  - API set of DALi has been deprecated. DALi API set has been replaced with NUI (DALi C# layer).
- NUI
  - Common
    - Throwing an exception has been added when some methods are used in worker threads.
    - Support for ComponentApplications has been added.
  - Image
    - Support for WebP image has been added.
    - Support for asynchronous loading of gif images has been added.
  - Input
    - The keyboard repeat setting changed event has been added.
  - Utility
    - Some Capture API set has been added.

#### Fixes

- NUI
  - View
    - The View size-related bug has been fixed when setting and animating the size are used at the same time.
    - A PropertyNotification bug has been fixed.
    - Some bugs of GaussianBlurVies have been fixed.
    - Some bugs of TextLabels have been fixed.
  - Common
    - Some memory leak bugs have been fixed.

### UI framework

#### New and changed features

- EFL
  - Version 1.24 has been upgraded to version 1.25.

>   - Support for gengrid has been added for wearable profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
  - Support for gengrid has been added for the wearable profile.

Reviewer 20: will accept

>   - Support for evas vector graphic has been added.

Reviewer 2: shouldnt it be **graphics**
```suggestion
  - Support for evas vector graphics has been added.

Reviewer 20: will accept

  - The ability to update and train deep Neural Networks on Tizen devices has been added.
  - The Machine Learning Training API allows application developers to describe their own Neural Network models and train the models or to re-train pre-trained models in runtime.
- Machine Learning Inference API update
  - The ability to use various hardware accelerators with Single API has been added.
  - The ability to fine-tune each element of a pipeline in runtime has been added.
  - The latency overheads of Single API have been reduced.
- NNStreamer update
  - NNStreamer has been upgraded from 1.5.2 to 1.6.0.
  - AI acceleration hardware support has been added.
    - Machine Learning API can utilize Verisicon-Vivante and Qualcomm-SNPE in addition to previously supported hardware.
      - You may need to download and install additional adaptors from tizen.org to support additional hardware.
  - The ability to import stream data from or export stream data to Flatbuffers and Protobuffers has been added for distributed or remote pipelines.
  - The ability to implement and insert tensor-converters for custom data types in runtime has been added.
- NNTrainer (new)

>   - NNTrainer has been added to allow on-device Neural Network training, which mainly targets transfer learning mechanisms with a few simple layers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - NNTrainer has been added to allow on-device Neural Network training, mainly targeting transfer learning mechanisms with a few simple layers.

Reviewer 19: Looks better. Thank.

  - NNTrainer provides various weight initializers, optimizers, activation functions, and loss functions.

>   - Neural Network models can be constructed by applications in runtime or can be loaded from a model file along with pre-trained weight values. Trained weight values can be saved and loaded later.

Reviewer 2: How about the following rephrase?

```suggestion
  - Neural Network models can be constructed by applications in runtime or loaded from a model file and pre-trained weight values. Trained weight values can be saved and loaded later.
```
If you do not like it, kindly ignore it.

Reviewer 19: Looks good. Thanks.

> ﻿# Tizen 6.0 Public M2

Reviewer 2: Exactly, there seems to be **\ufeff** character in front of the # Tizen 6.0 Public M2
